README.md, before:

# Yams

![Yams](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jpsim/Yams/master/yams.jpg)

A sweet and swifty [YAML](http://yaml.org/) parser built on
[LibYAML](https://github.com/yaml/libyaml).

[![SwiftPM](https://github.com/jpsim/Yams/workflows/SwiftPM/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jpsim/Yams/actions?query=workflow%3ASwiftPM)
[![xcodebuild](https://github.com/jpsim/Yams/workflows/xcodebuild/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jpsim/Yams/actions?query=workflow%3Axcodebuild)
[![pod lib lint](https://github.com/jpsim/Yams/workflows/pod%20lib%20lint/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jpsim/Yams/actions?query=workflow%3A%22pod+lib+lint%22)
[![Nightly](https://github.com/jpsim/Yams/workflows/Nightly/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jpsim/Yams/actions?query=workflow%3ANightly)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/jpsim/Yams/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/jpsim/Yams)

## Installation

Building Yams requires Xcode 11.x or a Swift 5.1+ toolchain with the
Swift Package Manager or CMake and Ninja.

### CMake

CMake 3.17.2 or newer is required, along with Ninja 1.9.0 or newer.

When building for non-Apple platforms:

```
cmake -B /path/to/build -G Ninja -S /path/to/yams -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DFoundation_DIR=/path/to/foundation/build/cmake/modules
cmake --build /path/to/build
```

To build for Apple platforms (macOS, iOS, tvOS, watchOS), there is no
need to spearately build Foundation because it is included as part of
the SDK:

```
cmake -B /path/to/build -G Ninja -S /path/to/yams -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
cmake --build /path/to/build
```

### Swift Package Manager

Add `.package(url: "https://github.com/jpsim/Yams.git", from: "3.0.1")` to your
`Package.swift` file's `dependencies`.

### CocoaPods

Add `pod 'Yams'` to your `Podfile`.

### Carthage

Add `github "jpsim/Yams"` to your `Cartfile`.

## Usage

Yams has three groups of conversion APIs:
one for use with [`Codable` types](#codable-types),
another for [Swift Standard Library types](#swift-standard-library-types),
and a third one for a [Yams-native](#yamsnode) representation.

#### `Codable` types

- Codable is an [encoding & decoding strategy introduced in Swift 4][Codable]
  enabling easy conversion between YAML and other Encoders like
  [JSONEncoder][JSONEncoder] and [PropertyListEncoder][PropertyListEncoder].
- Lowest computational overhead, equivalent to `Yams.Node`.
- **Encoding: `YAMLEncoder.encode(_:)`**
  Produces a YAML `String` from an instance of type conforming to `Encodable`.
- **Decoding: `YAMLDecoder.decode(_:from:)`**
  Decodes an instance of type conforming to `Decodable` from YAML `String`.

```swift
import Foundation
import Yams

struct S: Codable {
    var p: String
}

let s = S(p: "test")
let encoder = YAMLEncoder()
let encodedYAML = try encoder.encode(s)
encodedYAML == """
p: test

"""
let decoder = YAMLDecoder()
let decoded = try decoder.decode(S.self, from: encodedYAML)
s.p == decoded.p
```

#### Swift Standard Library types

- The type of Swift Standard Library is inferred from the contents of the
  internal `Yams.Node` representation by matching regular expressions.
- This method has the largest computational overhead When decoding YAML, because
  the type inference of all objects is done up-front.
- It may be easier to use in such a way as to handle objects created from
  `JSONSerialization` or if the input is already standard library types
  (`Any`, `Dictionary`, `Array`, etc.).
- **Encoding: `Yams.dump(object:)`**
  Produces a YAML `String` from an instance of Swift Standard Library types.
- **Decoding: `Yams.load(yaml:)`**
  Produces an instance of Swift Standard Library types as `Any` from YAML
  `String`.

```swift
// [String: Any]
let dictionary: [String: Any] = ["key": "value"]
let mapYAML: String = try Yams.dump(object: dictionary)
mapYAML == """
key: value

"""
let loadedDictionary = try Yams.load(yaml: mapYAML) as? [String: Any]

// [Any]
let array: [Int] = [1, 2, 3]
let sequenceYAML: String = try Yams.dump(object: array)
sequenceYAML == """
- 1
- 2
- 3

"""
let loadedArray: [Int]? = try Yams.load(yaml: sequenceYAML) as? [Int]

// Any
let string = "string"
let scalarYAML: String = try Yams.dump(object: string)
scalarYAML == """
string

"""
let loadedString: String? = try Yams.load(yaml: scalarYAML) as? String
```

#### `Yams.Node`

- Yams' native model representing [Nodes of YAML][Nodes Spec] which provides all
  functions such as detection and customization of the YAML format.
- Depending on how it is used, computational overhead can be minimized.
- **Encoding: `Yams.serialize(node:)`**
  Produces a YAML `String` from an instance of `Node`.
- **Decoding `Yams.compose(yaml:)`**
  Produces an instance of `Node` from YAML `String`.

```swift
var map: Yams.Node = [
    "array": [
        1, 2, 3
    ]
]
map.mapping?.style = .flow
map["array"]?.sequence?.style = .flow
let yaml = try Yams.serialize(node: map)
yaml == """
{array: [1, 2, 3]}

"""
let node = try Yams.compose(yaml: yaml)
map == node
```

## License

Both Yams and libYAML are MIT licensed.

[Codable]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/archives_and_serialization/encoding_and_decoding_custom_types
[JSONEncoder]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/jsonencoder
[PropertyListEncoder]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/propertylistencoder
[Nodes Spec]: http://www.yaml.org/spec/1.2/spec.html#id2764044

Commit message:

Make YAMLDecoder conform to TopLevelDecoder (#262)
* Add TopLevelDecoder conformance

* fixup! Add TopLevelDecoder conformance

* Support decoding `Data`

- Set `TopLevelDecoder.Input` to `Data`
- Provide `YAMLDecoder.deecode(...)` function taking `Data` as input
- Add tests for `TopLevelDecoder` and `Data` decoding
- Add `Parser.Encoding.swiftStringEncoding` member to convert between the Swift String encoding and the Yams encoding
- Fix warnings with Swift 5.3

* Add TopLevelDecoderTests to CMakeLists.txt

* Only add TopLevelDecoderTests.swift to LinuxMain.swift if Combine is available

* Completely remove TopLevelDecoderTests from LinuxMain

* Use @available attribute

* Store cancellable

* 5.3

* Force unwrap

* merge compiler conditionals

* Fixes

* Try to run TopLevelDecoderTests with Swift 5.2+

* Only report code coverage for latest Xcode version

* Update README

* Remove stored cancellable

* Add changelog entries

* Install latest SwiftLint available to Homebrew

README.md, after:

# Yams

![Yams](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jpsim/Yams/master/yams.jpg)

A sweet and swifty [YAML](http://yaml.org/) parser built on
[LibYAML](https://github.com/yaml/libyaml).

[![SwiftPM](https://github.com/jpsim/Yams/workflows/SwiftPM/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jpsim/Yams/actions?query=workflow%3ASwiftPM)
[![xcodebuild](https://github.com/jpsim/Yams/workflows/xcodebuild/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jpsim/Yams/actions?query=workflow%3Axcodebuild)
[![pod lib lint](https://github.com/jpsim/Yams/workflows/pod%20lib%20lint/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jpsim/Yams/actions?query=workflow%3A%22pod+lib+lint%22)
[![Nightly](https://github.com/jpsim/Yams/workflows/Nightly/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jpsim/Yams/actions?query=workflow%3ANightly)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/jpsim/Yams/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/jpsim/Yams)

## Installation

Building Yams requires Xcode 11.x or a Swift 5.1+ toolchain with the
Swift Package Manager or CMake and Ninja.

### CMake

CMake 3.17.2 or newer is required, along with Ninja 1.9.0 or newer.

When building for non-Apple platforms:

```
cmake -B /path/to/build -G Ninja -S /path/to/yams -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DFoundation_DIR=/path/to/foundation/build/cmake/modules
cmake --build /path/to/build
```

To build for Apple platforms (macOS, iOS, tvOS, watchOS), there is no
need to spearately build Foundation because it is included as part of
the SDK:

```
cmake -B /path/to/build -G Ninja -S /path/to/yams -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
cmake --build /path/to/build
```

### Swift Package Manager

Add `.package(url: "https://github.com/jpsim/Yams.git", from: "3.0.1")` to your
`Package.swift` file's `dependencies`.

### CocoaPods

Add `pod 'Yams'` to your `Podfile`.

### Carthage

Add `github "jpsim/Yams"` to your `Cartfile`.

## Usage

Yams has three groups of conversion APIs:
one for use with [`Codable` types](#codable-types),
another for [Swift Standard Library types](#swift-standard-library-types),
and a third one for a [Yams-native](#yamsnode) representation.

#### `Codable` types

- Codable is an [encoding & decoding strategy introduced in Swift 4][Codable]
  enabling easy conversion between YAML and other Encoders like
  [JSONEncoder][JSONEncoder] and [PropertyListEncoder][PropertyListEncoder].
- Lowest computational overhead, equivalent to `Yams.Node`.
- **Encoding: `YAMLEncoder.encode(_:)`**
  Produces a YAML `String` from an instance of type conforming to `Encodable`.
- **Decoding: `YAMLDecoder.decode(_:from:)`**
  Decodes an instance of type conforming to `Decodable` from YAML `String` or
  `Data`.

```swift
import Foundation
import Yams

struct S: Codable {
    var p: String
}

let s = S(p: "test")
let encoder = YAMLEncoder()
let encodedYAML = try encoder.encode(s)
encodedYAML == """
p: test

"""
let decoder = YAMLDecoder()
let decoded = try decoder.decode(S.self, from: encodedYAML)
s.p == decoded.p
```

#### Swift Standard Library types

- The type of Swift Standard Library is inferred from the contents of the
  internal `Yams.Node` representation by matching regular expressions.
- This method has the largest computational overhead When decoding YAML, because
  the type inference of all objects is done up-front.
- It may be easier to use in such a way as to handle objects created from
  `JSONSerialization` or if the input is already standard library types
  (`Any`, `Dictionary`, `Array`, etc.).
- **Encoding: `Yams.dump(object:)`**
  Produces a YAML `String` from an instance of Swift Standard Library types.
- **Decoding: `Yams.load(yaml:)`**
  Produces an instance of Swift Standard Library types as `Any` from YAML
  `String`.

```swift
// [String: Any]
let dictionary: [String: Any] = ["key": "value"]
let mapYAML: String = try Yams.dump(object: dictionary)
mapYAML == """
key: value

"""
let loadedDictionary = try Yams.load(yaml: mapYAML) as? [String: Any]

// [Any]
let array: [Int] = [1, 2, 3]
let sequenceYAML: String = try Yams.dump(object: array)
sequenceYAML == """
- 1
- 2
- 3

"""
let loadedArray: [Int]? = try Yams.load(yaml: sequenceYAML) as? [Int]

// Any
let string = "string"
let scalarYAML: String = try Yams.dump(object: string)
scalarYAML == """
string

"""
let loadedString: String? = try Yams.load(yaml: scalarYAML) as? String
```

#### `Yams.Node`

- Yams' native model representing [Nodes of YAML][Nodes Spec] which provides all
  functions such as detection and customization of the YAML format.
- Depending on how it is used, computational overhead can be minimized.
- **Encoding: `Yams.serialize(node:)`**
  Produces a YAML `String` from an instance of `Node`.
- **Decoding `Yams.compose(yaml:)`**
  Produces an instance of `Node` from YAML `String`.

```swift
var map: Yams.Node = [
    "array": [
        1, 2, 3
    ]
]
map.mapping?.style = .flow
map["array"]?.sequence?.style = .flow
let yaml = try Yams.serialize(node: map)
yaml == """
{array: [1, 2, 3]}

"""
let node = try Yams.compose(yaml: yaml)
map == node
```

#### Integrating with [Combine](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/combine)

When Apple's Combine framework is available, `YAMLDecoder` conforms to the
`TopLevelDecoder` protocol, which allows it to be used with the
`decode(type:decoder:)` operator:

```swift
import Combine
import Foundation
import Yams

func fetchBook(from url: URL) -> AnyPublisher<Book, Error> {
    URLSession.shared.dataTaskPublisher(for: url)
        .map(\.data)
        .decode(type: Book.self, decoder: YAMLDecoder())
        .eraseToAnyPublisher()
}
```

## License

Both Yams and libYAML are MIT licensed.

[Codable]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/archives_and_serialization/encoding_and_decoding_custom_types
[JSONEncoder]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/jsonencoder
[PropertyListEncoder]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/propertylistencoder
[Nodes Spec]: http://www.yaml.org/spec/1.2/spec.html#id2764044
